---
layout: page
title: "EmberJS"
category: technologies
date: 2015-06-23 07:00:00
---

# Technical overview

We use the javascript client framework "Ember.JS" to create beautiful single-page web applications. More precisely we use Ember-CLI, which is a set of tools built upon good practices of Ember.js.

We then use Phonegap/Cordova to transform this web app into a smartphone application, for any OS we want.

# Use cases

* Ubipad, a mobile app to gather some ground-truth from the caregivers.

* On long-term, we plan to implement the front-end of Ubigate using "Ember.js"

# Getting it running

## Creating a Ember.js project for android

```
npm install -g ember-cli
npm install -g bower
ember new <my-app-name>

ember g cordova-init com.reverse.domain --platform=android
```

## Cloning an existing project

```
git clone <repository_url>
npm install
bower install
ember cordova:prepare
```

## Running the app

```
ember server
# Access it through localhost:4200
# The server will automatically reload at any change in the filesystem
```

## Building for Android

```
ember cordova:build --environment production --platform android
ember cordova emulate android
```

The android package will then be available at `cordova/platforms/android/ant-build/<name>-debug.apk`

# Learning ember.js

* Start following the [EmberJS TodoMVC tutorial](http://guides.emberjs.com/v1.10.0/getting-started/)
* Then follow the [TodoMVC with EmberCLI](http://www.cubicleapps.com/articles/todo-mvc-with-ember-cli-part-1). Although the end-result is same, it has very little redundancy with the previous tutorial, and gives a great overview of EmberCLI's structure.

* Be aware that Ember is probably unlike anything you have used before, and it may take some time before you actually feel confident using it. Don't despair, once you get used to it, it's awesome ;).

## Connect Ember with a backend server

If you want to bind it with a Sails.js application, have a look at [Sails-generate-ember-blueprint](https://github.com/mphasize/sails-generate-ember-blueprints). If you start Sails + Ember project from scratch, use [Sane Stack](http://sanestack.com/) directly.

Alternatively, rather than adapting Sails towards Ember, you can adapt Ember towards Sails with [Ember-data-sails-adapter](https://github.com/bmac/ember-data-sails-adapter).

Also, note that you need to have handle authentications in your Sails app with a tool like [Waterlock](https://github.com/waterlock/waterlock), as you can't connect from the HTML view using Ember.

## Using custom libraries

`ember install:bower <my_lib>`

Update your `Brocfile.js`:

```javascript
// Use `app.import` to add additional libraries to the generated
...
// along with the exports of each modules as its value.

app.import("bower_components/<my_lib>/css/<some_stylesheets>.css");
app.import("bower_components/<my_lib>/js/<some_scripts>.js");
app.import("bower_components/<my_lib>/js/<another_scripts>.js");

...

module.exports = app.toTree();
```
